---
layout: single
title:  "Two teams from one"
date:   2018-08-08
categories: bootcamp
---
Welcome to this year's Breakthrough Robotics team! This will be an action-packed fall with a lot of moving parts and an incredibly exciting new theme - Into Orbit!

Next week we will host our season opener, Bootcamp from **August 13 to August 16** at 6pm. All students who wish to participate in the FLL season
with Breakthrough should attend the Bootcamp. We will cover a few different topics:

* Learn about the Robot Mission Challenges
* Brainstorm ideas for the Project
* Build team core values

There are two major changes for us this year: two teams instead of one, and
a new programming language.

Two Teams From One
---

Last year we had 11 students and only 10 spots for competition. This year, we expect
to field 15-18 students for the Robotics program. To allow everyone to compete, we will
split into two teams.

How should we split? We aren't exactly sure yet - but during the Season Opener next week
students will submit their preferences for roles and teams and we will do our best
to match everyone well. Team lists will be announced by the end of August.

Once formed, each team will independently come up with their own mission strategy and robot
design, and build and modify their own robot and attachments. Similarly, each team will
create its own project. As an overall Breakthrough organization, we will encourage lots of
cooperation between the teams - including sharing our designs and successes and always
asking each other for help - but in the tournament we will compete as two separate teams.

Fill out [ the preseason form ] to show your interest in which team you'd like to participate in.
