---
layout: single
title:  "Communication channels for 2018 season: website, email, team drive"
date:   2018-08-08
categories: bootcamp robotics programming
---

This season we expect to have 15-18 kids split across two teams, a major increase from previous years.
As such, we will be using a more organized system for managing communication among teams.

Here are the components to be aware of:

* This website - breakthroughbots.org. This website is a central place to put calendar, FLL resources,
as well as information about anything specific to breakthrough bots. The coaches will be blogging here with
updates for the team as well as celebrations of progress. Parents, students, and anyone else who is
interested can follow this blog. Students on the team should read these posts for detailed
information - although we will go over the really important details at each practice.

* Email List - please [ join the email list ] to receive updates. I will send emails at least weekly
with links to the relevant blog posts as well as important info that parents and students should be
aware of.

* Calendar - check out the [ calendar ] for all practice and tournament dates. If you use Google Calendar,
you can subscribe to the calendar to get reminders of events and RSVP.

* Google Team Drive - one of the most difficult issues we ran into last season was keeping track of all the
files that are generated by EV3 Mindstorms software. Last year we ran a network share drive that worked
moderately well on the laptops at the time. However, the network drive required each computer to use a
unique login, and sometimes we saw files get corrupted; also, files were not available outside of the
Breakthrough campus, which made it difficult for students and coaches to access from home.

This year, we have implemented a Google Team Drive. Google Drive allows us to store files for programming in folders
that are synced to each computer. Additionally, we can use the same space for google Docs & Slides - for example,
for project research & presentation or meeting agendas.

We can use the Google Drive for ad-hoc files or individual work products, whereas this website can serve
as more of a public face for our team.

* Slack - the coaches use Slack as our primary method for keeping in touch and sharing updates with each other.

Each student should:

* Subscribe the email list
* Be aware of the calendar
* Check the website at least once a week

Students are welcome to post to the blog - and will be expected to do so as the season progresses. I will
give more information about blogging later in the season.
